to start collecting deuterium,
When the captain told us
KIM:
Seven suggested modifications
to the Bussard collectors.
the extent of the modifications
Problem is, I didn't realize
until after we'd
begun the sweep,
anything wrong with them.
not that there was
In fact, efficiency is up 23%.
In a nutshell, Harry.
are almost full,
The collectors
but I can't tell
exactly how full
until I realign my sensors
with Seven's.
Why didn't you
just say so?
with her from the start.
Next time, work closer
( sighs )
Closer. Right.
So, you're going to realign
your sensors with Seven's.
Sounds like fun.
Very funny.
( rumbling )
What was that?
from Seven's modifications?
Are you getting feedback
Negative.
Report.
I am picking up proton surges
just outside the ship.
off the port beam
The first was
and the second two were
off the starboard bow.
On screen.
There's nothing out there.
it's getting closer.
Whatever it is,
Janeway to Astrometrics.
Red alert.
Yes, Captain.
SEVEN:
Use the Astrometrics sensors
to scan for the disturbance.
close-range weapons fire.
I'm detecting
Source?
cloaked ships engaged in battle.
Proton surges suggest two
With us caught
in the middle.
KIM:
Evasive maneuvers.
PARIS: Aye, Sir.
There's a massive
power surge--
ships is exploding.
like one of the
Captain, there is one life sign
aboard that vessel.
It is no longer on our sensors.
We're being hailed--
audio only.
Let's hear it.
Chakotay, please,
I need your help.
WOMAN:
Chakotay, are you reading me?
Please answer.
WOMAN:
This is Commander Chakotay.
Who are you?
Please, anyone on Voyager,
if you can hear me,
I need help.
an explosion on the vessel.
There has been
destabilizing.
The hull is
Life support
is off-line.
Beam her directly
to sickbay.
Targeting her
coordinates.
I've lost her.
Trying again.
I don't understand.
I get a clear lock;
Then it drops out.
an away team over there
If we can get
we could stabilize her ship
and tractor it in.
Do it.
Tom, Tuvok, let's find out
what's going on.
Environmental systems
are not functioning.
TUVOK:
Oxygen levels are
dangerously low.
life support on-line.
Tom... try to get
CHAKOTAY:
No life signs.
stabilize the hull.
See if you can
I'll look for the pilot.
Hello?
( woman groans )
Can you hear me?
Chakotay, is it you?
WOMAN:
Yes.
this bulkhead off you.
I'm going to get
But the beam will fall.
I'm going to pry the bulkhead
off you.
When I say "now," get ready
to roll out of there
depended on it.
like your life
All right.
Ready?
Yes.
Now!
I knew you'd come.
Do I know you?
Chakotay to Voyager.
Two to beam directly
to sickbay.
How is she?
I'm not certain.
When I scan her, the readings
won't stay in the database.
Luckily, I'm a master
of visual diagnosis.
and a compound tibular fracture.
She has a minor concussion
Nothing life-threatening.
I can repair the damage.
how she knows you?
Did you find out
Not yet.
( groans weakly )
I can't.
She's coming around.
Don't be frightened.
You're quite safe here.
Captain... please...
I need asylum.
You must let me stay
on your ship,
to get away from here.
and we've got
They'll be coming
after me.
Slow down a minute.
I have a few questions first.
Who are you?
And how do you know
my first officer?
It's a complicated story.
I'm not...
I'm not sure...
quite how to begin.
But if you don't give me asylum,
they're going to track me down
and they're going
to take me back.
And I don't want to go.
We won't turn you over to anyone
without knowing the whole story.
Thank you.
Chakotay...
to stay with her.
I want you
She seems to trust you.
Maybe you'll be
able to find out
is all about.
what this
I hope so.
Keep me informed.
Once I've repaired
the fracture,
some bed rest.
she'll need
Will you stay with me?
Of course.
Then I'll be fine.
DOCTOR:
There.
That should do it.
I'd ask you to monitor
her vital signs,
they aren't registering
but since
I suppose there's no point.
Well... I have several days
worth of inoculation records
I suppose I'll get to it.
to get to catalog.
Is he gone?
Yes.
Then we're alone.
In a manner of speaking.
Can you start clearing up
a few things now?
I'll try.
It's complicated.
You see, we've met before.
I'm sure I'd remember.
If that were true,
No, you wouldn't.
You couldn't.
the memories of my people
You see,
can't be held in the minds
of other races.
When we encounter others
which we do...
infrequently
for a few hours...
they remember us
but then the memories fade away.
We're completely forgotten
by the next day.
Is this done through technology?
Telepathy?
It's a factor of our biology.
You see, our bodies produce
a sort of pheromone
which blocks the long-term
memory engrams of others.
Is that why the tricorder
can't scan you?
Why we couldn't get
a transporter lock?
to those sort of devices.
We're impervious
Your ships are cloaked as well.
When you live a covert existence
you develop technology
to enhance it.
But you say we've met before.
About a month ago.
I spent several weeks here.
Several weeks...
you and I worked
closely together.
You helped me
a great deal.
Then I left...
knowing that you would forget
everything about me.
Then why did you come back?
Why ask us for asylum?
Why the battle?
I know you want everything
in a nutshell.
That's the way you work.
But I have to tell you
the whole story
before it will
make sense.
Fine. I'm listening.
I came back...
because I fell in love with you.
She comes from Ramura.
It's a closed society
anybody trying to leave.
that won't tolerate
disenchanted with that,
Apparently, she was
and wanted out.
to bring her back.
They're trying
That's why she's asking
for asylum.
that she claims
But you say
she was on Voyager
before this .
About a month ago.
She says she's a "tracer"--
a kind of bounty hunter
who tracks down people
who try to leave their world.
She found a runaway
hiding on Voyager.
but nobody remembers it?
She was here,
That's what she says,
but I think we have to find
a way to verify her story.
I was looking
at her ship.
It uses a sophisticated
polarization technique
that causes our sensor scans
to pass right through it.
She could have been shadowing us
for quite a while.
And learned enough about
us to convince us she's
been here before.
But why?
Why go to that trouble?
What about the battle with
that other cloaked ship?
She put herself in danger,
when it would have
been a lot easier
simply to ask for asylum.
I agree...
we have to make sure
but I think
some hidden agenda.
she doesn't have
If she was here, there should
be some evidence of it.
She said a computer
virus was planted
to wipe all references
to her being here
we can at least turn up
but I have to believe
some evidence of tampering.
Harry, Tuvok, Tom
with her ship.
do the same
See if the navigational logs
support what she's saying.
Gentlemen.
I agree we should
take precautions
but you seem very
suspicious of her.
we're not being manipulated.
I want to make sure
I agree. If we grant her asylum
of having to protect her.
we'll be in the position
to commit to that,
If we're going
we should certainly find out
if she's telling the truth.
your thoughts on that.
I'd appreciate
Aye, Captain.
I have successfully downloaded
logs from your vessel.
the navigational
Good. Now, compare them
with your own logs
over the last
two months.
toward the alpha quadrant.
Display Voyager's route
Now overlay my route.
There, you see?
Our ships traveled together
for at least two weeks.
You could have falsified
your navigational logs.
you ever came aboard Voyager.
There is no proof that
That's what I always liked
about you two--
such refreshing skepticism.
such unyielding logic,
Run a diagnostic on my logs.
they haven't been altered.
You'll find
( door opening )
How's it going?
to be legitimate,
Her story seems
TUVOK:
further steps to take.
but there are
Then take them.
I thought you might like
to get something to eat--
of our mess hall aren't good.
unless your memories
quite fond of Neelix's food.
As a matter of fact, I was
that's hard to believe.
Now, that's something
Commander Chakotay's
face became flushed
as he spoke with her.
What does that signify?
I'd rather not engage
in speculation.
It is a dangerous pastime.
will enjoy this, Commander.
I think our guest
Uh, fried soy meal,
buttered carrots
and a delightful
almond pudding.
Sounds wonderful.
Very nice. Thanks, Neelix.
You were very diplomatic.
Why do you say that?
fried food upsets your stomach,
You hate carrots,
and you refuse to eat pudding
because you think it's slimy.
Right?
I'm curious.
you said we worked together,
When you were here before,
but you also said you were here
to retrieve a runaway.
How was I involved?
Aren't you more curious
how we fell in love?
to hear about
were in love with me.
"We"? You said you
felt the same way.
You didn't say I
If you hadn't returned
the feelings
do you really think
I would have taken
such a terrible risk
to get back to you?
one step at a time.
Let's take it
How did you get on our ship?
That was easy. The hard part
was looking for the runaway
without anyone finding me.
I managed two days on the ship
before I triggered
an intruder alert
and lost my cloak.
And then what happened?
And then I met you.
Wrong direction.
I don't want to hurt you.
Put your weapon down.
I give the orders.
On my ship,
Put yours down.
I don't mean you any harm.
You have a stowaway
on board.
and we'll be on our way.
I'll retrieve him,
That's not the way
we do things here.
I'm in cargo bay two.
Chakotay to Tuvok,
I have our intruder.
Understood, Commander.
You're about to find
yourself outnumbered.
to give me your weapon
If you want
and explain what's going on,
I'll listen.
I felt an attraction right away
but I couldn't afford
to get distracted.
I had work to do.
if you felt it, too.
And I didn't know
What happened next?
You took me to Captain Janeway.
I explained the situation.
She didn't like the idea
of a stowaway
so she told you and Tuvok
on her ship,
to flush him out.
to work with me
And did we?
to jump to the end.
You keep trying
all the parts about us.
You're skipping
to talk about your feelings.
And you keep trying
stick to the events,
I'd rather you
not the emotions
surrounding them.
Why?
Does it make you uncomfortable?
I don't want to play this game.
I've been assigned
to talk to you --
to figure out whether or not
you're telling the truth.
I have no memory of meeting you
Even if you are,
and I certainly have no memory
of feeling anything for you.
You might remember
a relationship
but as far as I'm concerned,
between us,
it didn't exist.
I see.
I'm sorry.
I just want to make
it clear how I feel.
Of course.
Is there anything
I can do for you?
Can I have your pudding?
( laughing )
Gladly.
Then you're forgiven.
Chakotay and Kellin,
JANEWAY:
report to the Bridge
immediately.
It's the tracers.
They've found me.
We don't detect any ships.
I'm assuming these are
your people in cloaked vessels.
to take me back.
They've come
Harry, hail them.
They won't answer.
She's right, captain.
KIM:
No response.
Their weapons are going
through our shields
as if they weren't there.
Match shields to the frequency
particle beams.
of their
No effect.
Shield strength down to 29%.
They'll keep firing
until you surrender
or until I contact them
and agree to come back.
Do you still want to stay?
Yes.
Tom, get us out of here.
All right.
damaged our propulsion systems.
That last volley
We have thrusters only.
Captain, if you'll
let me have access
to your sensor systems
to detect the ships.
I can modify them
Do it.
This is the moment,
Chakotay.
Either we give her up
or we fire back.
Which one is it?
Fire.
I think you might be able
to detect them now
a minute or two.
but only for
Harry.
Two heavily armed ships
Affirmative.
off the port bow.
Can we get them on screen?
That's the best I can do.
JANEWAY:
Tuvok,
target their weapons systems.
Firing.
Well done.
JANEWAY:
Stand down red alert.
Well, it seems we've
granted you asylum.
Now you'll have to
give some thought
to what you want to do.
I'd prefer to remain on board.
Consider that carefully.
for the alpha quadrant.
We're heading
Before long, we will be
so far from your world,
that if you change your mind,
you wouldn't be able
to get back.
I won't change my mind,
but I must warn you--
the tracers won't give up
that easily.
Your ship is still at risk.
Nothing we haven't
faced before.
I was only able to make
a temporary modification
KELLIN:
to your sensors.
your Astrometric processors
If you'd let me access
that modification permanent.
I could make
You'll need a command
officer with you
the security lockouts.
to override
I can do that, Captain.
Go ahead.
Tom, coordinate
with Engineering
to get the propulsion systems
back on-line.
I'm on it, Captain.
We'll have to climb
up to deck ten.
Is something wrong?
until we're far enough away
I can't relax
they can't get me back...
that they realize
that's never happened before.
and to my knowledge,
There's always
a first time.
security clearance.
I have a high
They'll be afraid
I'm going to do
exactly what I'm about to do--
show you how to detect them.
Look at it this way.
If they do figure out
we can spot them,
they might realize they
aren't going
to be able to take you back.
You're such a kind person.
I remembered most.
It's what
turn around and come back.
It's what made me
And sometime...
you might be interested in...
our last night together.
hearing about
Evening, Commander.
a late-night snack?
Craving
to help me sleep.
No. Something
Got any ideas?
warm milk will do it.
I know humans think
Frankly, I find it repulsive.
I agree.
What's available
in the tea area?
Herbal is best.
Terran varieties, uh...
I have several
more exotic blends.
as well as some
you think is the most relaxing.
Just mix me up whatever
Problems?
I wasn't trying to pry.
Forgive me.
I know that.
I'm just not sure
how to answer you.
adapting to life on Voyager?
How's our guest
Quite well, I think.
She must be happy
to be here.
I'm sure she is.
Forgive me, Commander...
but sometimes it's best
to be straightforward.
how she feels about you--
It's obvious
to me, at least.
I see how she looks at you.
Might that be the source
of your consternation?
She says she, or rather, we,
she was here before.
fell in love when
remember any of that
Since I can't
I don't know if it's true
it's hard to believe.
but somehow,
Why is that?
I don't know.
It just doesn't seem like me.
I'm still suspicious of her.
if she's using me in some way
I don't know
just for her own purposes.
You don't trust her.
Not really.
May I suggest...
that maybe it's yourself
you don't trust,
that you're afraid of.
your own feelings
Sweet dreams.
( door chimes )
I couldn't sleep.
I need to talk to you.
May I come in?
I was just wondering if you
still had doubts about me,
or if you believe what
I told you about us.
to have been verified.
Your story seems
you're telling the truth.
I believe
And the rest of it?
What about us?
I'm not one to hold back
as you may have noticed,
so I'll get to the point.
I came here because of you.
I knew you wouldn't
remember me,
we could regain
but I was sure
we had before.
the feelings
They were there...
and they were real...
but now I'm not so sure.
My being here puts
this ship at risk.
It's better for everyone
if I go back to Ramura.
So please be honest.
If you feel nothing for me...
just tell me...
and I'll leave.
Don't go.
( both laughing )
It's called "ice cream"?
you didn't have any
I'm surprised
the last time you were here.
this every day.
I could eat
Then, you should.
( chuckling )
Voyager's a very...
powerful ship.
And very fast.
with ships that are faster
We've met people
and more powerful
but Voyager's always
managed to be a match
for the best of them.
Ramuran vessels are fast.
They could stay up
with this ship.
Kellin...
we'll keep you safe.
That's a promise.
A tracer never goes
home empty-handed.
would be too great.
The disgrace
When I was here before
I'd been tracking that
man for almost a year.
But you know all the tricks.
You can use them
against anyone
who tries to come after you.
you were going to tell me
You said
about our last night together.
Let me show you.
You were sitting here
in this chair...
and I...
was here.
something with bubbles.
And we were drinking
Champagne?
Yes. I wanted to celebrate.
I'd caught my runaway that day
with your help.
How was that?
You came up with the idea
of using a magneton sweep
polarization cloak.
to disrupt his
closely so... we tricked him.
We knew he'd be watching me
I'm sorry you didn't get
your fugitive.
He must have jumped
to another ship
orbit of Mikah last week.
while Voyager was in
I'll find him eventually.
of any more help, let me know.
If you think we can be
Thank you, Commander.
This is my problem.
I'll handle it from now on.
Just beam me back to my ship
and I'll backtrack to Mikah.
Goodbye and thank you again.
Ready to energize.
You were a real challenge.
Hello, Resket.
to welcome you to Voyager.
I haven't had the chance
CHAKOTAY:
Too bad you'll be
leaving so soon.
We put him in the brig.
the neurolytic emitter on him,
Once I used
to be going home again.
he was only too happy
"Neurolytic emitter"?
We use it on runaways.
It wipes their memories
of the outside world.
So we were celebrating?
You'd become much more than
a friend to me, but I knew
forget about me within hours.
I had to go home, and you'd
So I took the initiative.
More than usual?
Oh, yes.
I moved closer to you...
I thanked you profusely
for all your help,
have done it without you...
told you that I couldn't
and I touched you.
I cared very much for you...
I told you I...
and that I wanted something
to remember you by.
And then I did this...
you felt the same way.
That's when I knew
because I still had to go.
But it didn't matter
But now you don't.
If Kellin's going
to be with us
the Captain wants her
to serve a function--
to contribute in some way.
A reasonable expectation.
What are her skills?
Basically, she was a security
operative for her people.
She's a trained expert
in weaponry,
surveillance, fighting skills.
where she might fit in?
Any idea
an assistant in the mess hall.
Mr. Neelix could use
Tuvok, that was a joke.
you were trying to be funny.
Don't deny it--
If you choose to interpret
my remark as humorous,
that is your decision.
I do and it was.
It's perfectly logical.
All the qualities you mentioned
would help in defending Neelix
against the periodic
wrath of the crew.
( laughs )
think she'd be better off,
Maybe so. But don't you
of your security detail?
as a member
Perhaps. I'll assign
her to a team
observe for a week.
and let her
I'll evaluate her situation.
At the end of that time
Good enough.
Commander, I've been giving
some thought to the fact
that the Ramuran ships
might be in pursuit
and could attack us again.
some thought myself.
I've given that
Their proton weapons were
particularly effective
against us.
with Seven and Ensign Kim,
If Kellin would work
a strategy to defend ourselves.
perhaps we could devise
I'm sure she'd be happy
to do that.
to Astrometrics at 1300 hours.
Have her report
from our tactical logs.
I've downloaded data
from this console.
You can access it
proton-based particle beams
Our weapons are
very tightly focused.
It's like being hit with
thousands of needles.
They can penetrate
any shield
even if the modulations
are changed.
Very clever.
stopped these weapons.
No defense has ever
about to make history.
Then maybe we're
You've found a way
to counteract them?
I think so.
The trick is to scatter
those beams a little,
to penetrate the shields.
make it harder for them
by tying the baryon sensors
I think we could do that
Here's what I have in mind.
into deflector control.
and let me know what you think?
Why don't you look this over
I'll do it right away.
By the way, I hear Chakotay
recommended you to Tuvok
to serve on a security detail.
I want to help out
in some way.
Volunteer for beta squad.
A word of advice.
They're the best team.
You'll learn a lot from them.
I will. Thank you.
Commander Chakotay's name
When you mentioned
she flushed.
He did the same
when he saw her.
What are you saying?
I suspect the commander
and Kellin are engaged
in a courtship ritual.
and complicated precursor
It seems an unnecessary
to the act of procreation.
( chuckles )
I know you think so,
but trust me,
need those rituals.
some people
Explain.
considered a good idea
It's...it's usually
if two people get to know
each other a little
before they become... intimate.
Why is that?
Because it's more comfortable.
together, you laugh, you talk.
Uh, you spend some time
And that makes it easier to...
to get closer.
But the end result is the same,
is it not?
Well, I guess so.
accomplished by all the talk.
Then I fail to see what is
then I can't explain it to you.
Seven, if you don't get it,
Obviously.
They must have gotten somebody
I should have known.
on board during the battle.
You're jumping
to conclusions.
He's here, he's come for me.
No. There's a tracer.
That broken vase
was a warning.
We'll protect you.
anything happen to you.
I'm not going to let
No!
It's too late.
the same magneton sweep
We can use
we used to flush out Resket.
and send him on his way.
We'll find this one
( energy crackling )
I can't let that happen.
I'm afraid
Curneth, don't.
Chakotay to Security.
Intruder alert,
my quarters.
Please, I beg you,
don't do this.
than to ask that, Kellin.
You know better
No!
Drop it! Drop it!
CHAKOTAY:
You're too late.
beginning to forget
She's already
everything that's happened here.
( gasping lightly )
there's nothing he can do.
The doctor says
have already begun to fade.
Your recent memories
Don't let this happen,
please.
Don't let this happen.
how we can reverse the effect?
Do you have any idea
Promise me...
if I forget why I'm here,
if I forget you...
do what I did...
and you'll tell me
all about us...
and you'll help me to remember.
to try to do more than that.
I will, but I'm going
of the neurolytic emitter
Can the effects
be reversed?
Reversed?
I have no idea.
no one's ever tried.
As far as I know,
Then I'll be the first.
Tell me how the emitter works,
the memory centers.
how it affects
You sound desperate,
Commander.
that much to you?
Does Kellin mean
What you're doing is wrong;
She wants to stay here.
This is futile.
how the emitter works
Even if I knew
I wouldn't tell you.
You have no right
to do this.
I have every right.
are very specific about that.
The laws on our world
No one may leave.
No one may reveal
anything about us
to the outside world.
both of those edicts.
Kellin has violated
serve as a deterrent
Returning her will
to others who might
think of leaving.
Did it ever occur to you
so many people want to leave
that the fact that
might mean there's something
wrong with your society?
and cohesive society
We have a strong
because of our efforts
to keep it that way.
A few runaways among millions
hardly indicates a problem.
If there are so few...
why not let them go?
we don't care about them.
That would suggest that
What a terrible message.
You may have wiped her memory,
but Kellin's not going back.
and see if that's what happens.
Maybe we should wait
that she wants to stay here.
She made it clear to me
should start practicing
So maybe you
to tell your superiors.
what you're going
( sighs )
Yes?
( door opening )
The doctor told me
he'd released you.
How are you feeling?
I'm fine.
Do I know you?
Yes.
At least, you did.
You'll have to forgive me,
but I don't remember
how I got here
or anything else
that's happened
the past few weeks.
in at least
I know.
I hope I wasn't
throwing things
in a fit of rage.
No.
is here to take me back.
I assume a tracer
That's right.
But...
what I'm going to say
will sound strange,
but it's what you
asked me to do
before you lost
your memories.
about a month ago
You came here
looking for a runaway.
you decided to come back.
After you left with him,
But if I finished
my assignment,
why would I come back here?
Because...
in love with me.
you'd fallen
You're certainly attractive,
Forgive me.
but what you're telling me
seems very unlikely.
But it's what happened.
work together...
We started to
and I began to realize
how unique you are.
Before long, I couldn't
get you out of my mind.
Are you saying that you fell
in love with me as well?
Yes.
the tracer was on board.
And then we realized
the emitter on you,
After he used
to tell you all of this
you made me promise
so you would know what
happened between us.
This is a little unsettling.
you want from me?
What is it
Kellin,
with the tracer.
don't go back
at least for a few days.
Stay here for a while,
We can get to know
each other again.
what would be served by that.
I honestly can't imagine
I have to go home.
If you stayed...
you might change
your mind.
all the more reason
Then that's
that I should leave now.
of our most important edicts...
I've violated one
to make that mistake again.
and I wouldn't want
I wish...
under different circumstances.
I wish we had met
( sighs )
Your ship's ready.
Thank you, Commander.
a computer virus
I've implanted
to eliminate any reference
to our being here.
By tomorrow afternoon
you'll have forgotten
everything.
It will be as though
we never existed.
It's better that way.
You're such a kind person.
I won't forget that.
I wish you both the best.
Energize.
First officer's personal log,
stardate 51813.4.
Maybe it would be best,
as the tracer said,
and the time she spent here
to forget about Kellin
but I don't want to do that.
I want to remember.
More coffee, Commander?
No, thanks.
I'm almost done.
Strange to see you using
Mmm.
writing implements.
those ancient
I could get a permanent record
Ah, it's the only way
in the last few days.
of what's happened
before I forget it all.
I want to get it down
didn't work out for you.
I'm sorry things
( sighs )
to make sense of it.
I've been trying
I fell in love with her twice.
I thought she could do the same.
We were the same two people
on the same ship.
Why didn't it happen again?
I keep going over and over
our last conversation,
trying to think if there was
something I could have said,
could have done...
but nothing comes to mind.
Commander, I don't think
you can analyze love.
It's the greatest mystery
of all.
No one knows why it happens
or doesn't.
Love is a chance combination
of elements.
Any one thing might be enough
to keep it from igniting.
A mood, a glance...
a remark.
And if we could define love...
predict it...
it would probably lose
its power.
I'll let you finish.
Good night.